The skills you're building right now are
for the AI era, but they have an
expiration date. Every few years
something comes along that changes
what's actually possible. The internet
didn't make libraries faster, it made
them irrelevant. AI didn't make search
engines better, it made a completely
different way of finding answers. And
now we have something that's coming that
most people haven't even heard of yet.
And it does the same thing to computing
itself. In December 2024, Google
unveiled a quantum processor that
completed a calculation in minutes. That
exact calculation that would take
today's supercomputers longer than the
age of the universe. And that is a
different category of a machine. And
here's where it gets a little scary. A
few days ago, Google published another
paper. They say quantum computers could
crack Bitcoin encryption in 9 minutes
using 20 times fewer resources than
anyone thought. As someone who holds
crypto and is curious about implications
of quantum on my day-to-day life, I
wanted to ask questions. So, I was in
Davos this January and I met the man
whose 1985 discovery made all of this
possible. He just won the Nobel Prize
for it. And President Donald Trump just
put him on his science advisory council
alongside with Mark Zuckerberg, Sergey
Brin, and Jensen Huang. He's the only
scientist in that room. And he gave me a
timeline, 5 to 10 years. And to
understand why this matters for your
career, you need to understand what he
actually discovered. Let's talk to John
Martinis. I wanted to talk to you about
something that you discovered. So, I
don't have any experience in quantum
physics, but the way I understood it, if
you throw a ball against the wall, it
bumps, right? But you discovered that an
electron
can pass the wall without passing it and
be on both sides? Yeah, so it's possible
that the the ball, you know, the ball
can tunnel through the wall.
Uh and it not just bounce off, but every
once in a while actually tunnel through
it. And the way I like to say it is
that, you know, people are accustomed
that quantum mechanics is the physics of
atoms and molecules and microscopic
particles. And here we made electrical
circuit about that big and the currents
and voltages in that big macroscopic
electrical circuit is actually
obeying quantum mechanics and showing
this tunneling phenomenon. That's the
moment quantum stopped being just
theory. He proved it works in machines
and that's what started everything. So
before this discovery, scientists
thought quantum mechanics only lived
inside atoms. He proved it works in
machines. So what does that unlock? What
really happened
with with this idea and frankly it's the
reason for the Nobel Prize is that we
took this discovery and then people
built on it, built on it and then the
idea of build qubits and building a
quantum computer came along which
naturally our this physics naturally fit
into this. So it's really kind of the
the
creation of a field of discovery and
innovation and technology that these
experiments got developed into and why
it's important today.
>> Yeah, when you when you say quantum
computer, a lot of people think science
fiction. For people who don't know how
it affects their daily lives and might
affect their daily lives, can you give
two or three examples where quantum
computers really make a difference?
Um the the
idea I like to talk about is
um
for
doing design of materials or molecules
or chemistry. And people are are very
familiar right now how you use computers
to
design your kitchen, make a mechanical
part, design electronic circuit,
you know, other things. So, you can
build it virtually Yeah. and then when
you go and you build it in the real
world,
building it virtually in the digital is
a lot cheaper and better and you can
think about the trade-offs. Well, a
quantum computer would enable you to do
that with molecules. Mhm. And, you know,
certain atomic molecules, other things.
>> parts. What about drug discovery? I feel
like if we're
>> and and the the same kind of thing with
drug discovery. So, if you can simulate
the molecules really well, then you can
maybe even just gain some insight. I
mean, what I've been told is that for
example, to drug discovery, it's very
expensive to do this. And if you can
improve, let's just say your insight on
how the drug works by 1% or a few
percent, that's really valuable and
could be worth a lot of money. Yeah. So,
so it's not like we have to totally
change things, but
um I I think just improvements and
better insights can be quite valuable
for companies. But if we go 10 years
forward,
what do you think our life is going to
look like if quantum computing is
everywhere and accessible to everyone?
How's it going to change?
>> So, um
there's kind of two things involved in
this. First of all, we have to build
better hardware.
And then we have to be, you know, think
about algorithms, be smarter with the
algorithms and the like. And there's
there's kind of a gap now and maybe some
people think there's not much of a gap
and other people think there's a big
gap, but we need to close the gap. And
that's building better hardware, which
is what I'm doing in my company. We're
trying to do that as well as many other
people. And then people have to be more
clever. And what's interesting is you
build better hardware, you can test out
the algorithms better and then you can
maybe discover exactly what's, you know,
what you need to get it to work right.
So, it's a very interesting time where,
you know, we're everyone's really trying
to to push these things together and get
it to work properly. Yeah, it feels like
it's a really fast-growing market.
According to Quantum Insider report,
it's going to generate $1 trillion in
economic value in the next 10 years. Uh
what that's an optimistic scenario that
we find useful things to do. It's quite
possible that will happen. And
certainly, I like those kind of
forecasts because we try to
make it
>> yeah. But our idea is that what we're
really trying to do in our company is
make a general-purpose error-corrected
quantum computer. And not that hundreds
of cube physical qubits what are people
now, but you may need a million physical
qubits operating in the way where the
errors go down and and and it works
properly, where I think the real value
will be unlocked. And you know, the
long-term value. But certainly, there
you know, if people do this in the next
few years, you'll get you'll get good
value. But the all those kind of numbers
you're talking about, you know, our
thesis is you're going to build this big
computer and make it very well. As you
might have realized, I had this
conversation with John at Davos. And
honestly, every conversation during
World Economic Forum was with someone
like John, a Nobel Prize winner, a
professor, a founder of an AI company.
And then you walk out knowing something
important was said. But by the time you
sit down to act on it, you've lost the
nuance, the exact words. Oh, what was
the tool that he mentioned? What was the
hack that was going to work for my case?
And that's the problem this device
solves. It's called Plaud. Guest calls,
partner calls, internal team syncs, the
conversations that actually move things
forward, this little device records and
analyzes everything. It's a small
wearable, one press to record, no phone
on the table between you and the person
you're talking to. You stay fully
present in the conversation and
afterwards you get a structured summary.
Decisions, next steps, key insights,
10,000 plus templates by conversation
type, industry, and language. So, what
you get back actually reflects what the
meeting was. This is our conversation
with John. Here's the transcript, every
speaker labeled. And here's the summary,
key insights, action items, built
automatically. 1.5 million people will
use it. 98% transcription accuracy.
Works in person, on Zoom, over the
phone, and it fits in my phone's case.
Find the link in the description. If
you're having conversations that matter,
and clearly you are cuz you're here,
this device is worth checking out. And
of course, you always disclose when you
record conversations, that's natural.
So, he's betting on hardware the way
Jensen Huang bet on GPUs before anyone
knew what they were for. Now, that's the
question that has been on my mind since
I heard about quantum computing. Yeah,
what what do you think for all the
entrepreneurs who are watching who want
to start building something in this
field, what are the most exciting
markets when it comes to quantum
computing? Is it building hardware, or
is it like applying the algorithms?
Well, there's a lot of effort into
algorithms because building software and
algorithms is a relatively low cost. Uh
you don't have to buy a So, our company
is doing the exact wrong thing, which is
investing in building hardware really
well. Now, the nice thing is is that
once you do that, you can be and you're
successful, you can be a extremely
successful company. And I I
I like to think about Nvidia. Although
they're partnering with TSMC, but their
knowledge of designing the computers and
putting together the systems have made
them extremely uh
company. And when our view on hardware
is that um you know, it's possible for
us to do that uh do that, too. So, we're
taking the hard approach
uh and and focusing on the hardware. And
then our particular thesis is that if
you look at superconducting qubits right
now and where they are, I mean, I helped
invent all the things to get there. Um
and uh I think it's great and but it's
still kind of um uh little bit I'd say
academic or maybe even artisanal uh uh
fabrication. And then we're trying to
use much more established semiconductor
uh tools and fabrication process and the
like in order to scale up and make the
qubits better. Yeah. And what when it
comes to markets, what what are you
thinking of the markets that are going
to be transformed the most? We talked
about healthcare, finance, any other
markets?
>> it it's all all of the above. And you
hear people working working on that. But
I like that we have very definite
um ideas on how to build it. So, let me
I I I can explain this for maybe some of
the Silicon Valley types. I really love
Peter Thiel's book Zero to One.
Okay? And that kind of in some sense
explained my uh my career. So, I am very
much a definite optimist. I want to know
what to build I want to know what to
build to make it useful. And that's what
that paper was all about. Now, there's a
lot of people in this field who are
indefinite optimists. In fact, most
people in the United States are. And
they they have all the ideas like you're
talking about. And I think that's great.
I'm glad people are pushing that. My
particular um
way my mind works and what's al- always
been successful is to really focus in it
focus in on something definite you have
to do. However, I'm very well well aware
you're in a startup company, you'll
probably have to pivot. Yeah. And think
about different things and we'd be happy
to do that once those ideas come to
fruition. But the one thing I know for
sure is we have to make better qubits
and we have to make it scale.
>> We need the hardware.
>> Yeah, yeah, so we need the hardware and
okay, so that's what we're doing no
matter what happens.
>> Yeah. Uh I think so this question has
been bothering me for a while. I think
you're the right person to ask, is
quantum computing going to break
cryptocurrencies?
Um
So um my uh the CEO of my company is an
expert here and I'm going to hopefully
uh re- re-
re- represent it well enough. Mhm. Um my
understanding is if you have some of the
older cryptos currency that was encoded
in a way that could be broken.
But um some of the if the newer
versions, it's um it's a little bit
stiffer encryption.
>> Bitcoin, the oldest?
>> I I think that this is Bitcoin as I
recall.
>> So that one's And then you can take your
old Bitcoin Mhm. and um you know, pull
it out and then re-encrypt it to make it
make it better. Okay, so you can make it
safe. Okay.
>> But there's a lot of Bitcoin that's kind
of unclaimed, that's old and it's a lot
of money. Oh, interesting. So once
quantum computer computing breaks into
that
>> So that is a market for a quantum
computer. Business idea.
Well,
so we're aware of that, okay? And that's
fine. Now,
what my CEO is doing, which I think is
very responsible, is talking to the US
Treasury about this.
>> Mhm. Because the US Treasury is going to
be concerned that if other companies or
uh you know, criminal organizations
get get a hold of that money. It's a lot
of money.
>> it is. That um you know, that's a real
issue and you probably want to set up
laws and some system in order to uh, you
know, do that.
>> Yeah, cuz it's still very unregulated.
There's so much crypto ledgers or
>> Yeah, and and that's the problem is you
have something very unregulated, which
people really like, but in some sense
that's the Achilles heel. Yeah. That
because it's unregulated, if some
technology can overcome it. And so you
may you know, there may need to be some
thought on how to how to Now, I'm not an
expert here,
but but but I I think I'm getting this
kind of directionally correct. I talked
to the people building what's next
before it makes headlines. If that's
useful to you, do not forget to
subscribe to this channel. What is the
timeline that you think?
So what I like to say is um,
it's possible in 5 to 10 years to build
this a big enough quantum computer to do
that.
And partly I just say that that's kind
of an optimistic scenario and partly I
say that is to warn people that, you
know, this may be coming and you want to
protect you know, every not just
Bitcoin, but you know, the whole
internet needs to switch over
in this kind of time period. Yeah. Now,
what's interesting and and just I was at
a at a meeting where IBM kind of quoted
similar numbers. So this is all very
visible. It's funny that that Google the
CEO is is saying 3 to 5 years. Uh, is he
trying to push things? Well, I think
he's pushing because if you're a CEO and
you're making a prediction, you want to
you want to have a lower number because
you don't want to be caught, you know,
without that. But for example, Google
already has quantum resistant protocols
on at least some of their their traffic.
I don't know the details, but you know,
these big companies already know about
it and are protecting the protecting
their data or will be protecting their
data.
But but there's things like crypto that
you know, that's beyond the beyond that
and other kind of private systems that
you might have to worry about. That was
very interesting. So we're basically
we're working on quantum computing but
then we also need to work on the
algorithms that protect existing
systems.
>> Yeah and and what happened is
actually the idea that you can break it
break it with this
was invented in the 1990s.
People understood that.
Peter Shore and then you know in the
early early 1990s
and then
the government you know really has
understood this for a long time and I'm
going to say about 10 maybe 12 years ago
the government got very serious about
this. And they saw that yeah okay the
technology maybe you know could make
this happen and for example at NIST they
have a big program that they're looking
at what they called quantum safe
cryptography other ways to encode it and
that's that's been 10 years. They have a
nice algorithms.
People you know you can download
essentially the algorithm and code and
people are are building systems to do
this. So people have been responding to
this well. You can buy solutions here
and you know so I think we're in pretty
good shape. I think people are still you
know investigate you know part of the
thing about the crypto security is
people have to try to break it for a
long time to make sure that it's really
safe. I mean people don't know that RSA
is unbreakable. RSA For sure but they
know from practice that you know
and the way that the everything's
operating that they don't think anyone
has broken it. Yeah. So so it needs time
to do this.
>> You know, you you're observing extremely
rare uh extreme extremely rare events
and you're building something that is
completely new. Has that changed how you
think about luck blocks one moment
because you're observing them both
basically in your work? Um
What's kind of strange in my career is
um
I've been developing a series of
experiments
uh and um
uh
how I've gone from you know, one
project to the other.
And what's kind of funny in my career is
I do a project and then somehow it
doesn't work out in some way.
And then I'm you know, stuck wondering
well, I have to do something else.
And um and then I figure out what else
to do that's really interesting. So,
changing all the the different topics
and projects
is is always come through some strange
event often kind of a negative event.
And just to give you an example, I was I
went to Google, they paid me well, we
did this quantum supremacy experiment
and uh but then at some point after the
quantum supremacy, they wanted to change
the way they managed the group and
essentially I was not Googley enough to
stay at Google and I had to leave which
was you know, kind of difficult to to
essentially leave a project you started
well way back in graduate school.
However, by leaving Google, I was then
free to think very creatively and free
to think well, we're building in a
certain way and how do I really want to
build this to make it scalable and
better and whatever. And by starting my
own company and through think thinking
freely and you know
starting it with the co-founders we were
able to come with with a bunch of
ideas how to make it better. Yeah. And
it could be that although that was a
very let's say traumatic thing I'm sure
other people have gone through this that
may be the best thing for me and the
field that I was able to do something
something new out of it.
>> Absolutely and now you have your own
company.
>> you know that's one thing and and this
has happened to me over and over again
and I kind of have to accept that you
know that's
you know sometimes these setbacks in
life are actually very good for you. So
the good thing is this year I just kind
of I knew it was coming up but I totally
forgot about it. So when the phone call
came it was a complete surprise.
>> of the night or
>> Middle of the night well and it was my
wife was awake and she saw she heard the
phone phone ringing but she thought
she'd catch in the morning. And then she
was just going to sleep and she looked
at her email and there was all these
congratulations.
But that was like you know 2:30 in the
morning.
>> Yeah.
And she knows I need my sleep.
So um she didn't tell me Oh. uh until
about 6:00. Dad you didn't tell
>> because I needed my sleep. Yeah.
>> And also there were reporters who were
coming to that house and they wanted to
wake me up in bed. And she she pushed
them away like let him get his sleep.
>> wait like we can't do that. Wow. But um
I do remember her like you know sitting
in the bed and you know waking me up
gently and saying hey there's some
reporters
and and and you know I kind of I do it's
October. So I I just opened my computer
and I saw you know my picture there with
the with John and Michelle. So that was
a very like it's just you You believe
that it it's happening to
>> like a fairy tale. It's a fairy tale.
And what I would say is I think the most
interesting part is you get to go to
things like this
uh and and see have these very amazing
experiences.
>> Here's what I actually walked away with.
T M and Google aren't waiting for
quantum to be ready. They are already
deploying it. The race is happening
whether your industry knows it or not.
The encryption protecting everything you
do online, your bank, your company data,
your messages was built before quantum
computers existed. John's timeline, 5 to
10 years. So that's not a distant
problem. If you're working tech,
finance, or cybersecurity, this is the
conversation I think we should be having
right now. In my newsletter this week, I
mapped out which industries are most
exposed right now and what people in
those fields are actually doing about
it. And how can you start adjusting your
career for what's to come. My newsletter
is called future-proof. The link is in
the description. Quantum is 5 to 10
years out. AI is right now. I talked to
a Stanford professor about exactly what
to do in the next 30 days. That video is
right here on the screen. It is very
practical. It's going to make you
excited about AI and excited about
introducing it into your workflows. See
you in that episode and thank you for
watching this after the very end. Bye.